.\" VIEW THIS MAN PAGE WITH THE COMMAND:
.\" groff -mdoc -Tascii lsauxv.1
.Dd February 3, 2010
.Os Linux
.Dt LSAUXV \&1 "General Commands Manual"
.Sh NAME
.Nm lsauxv
.Nd command for querying the auxiliary vector
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm lsauxv
.Op Fl Fl help | Fl Fl info | Fl Fl list | Fl Fl hwcap
.Nm lsauxv
.Ar a_type1 a_type2 ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
* WARNING: This library is going to be discontinued. Please use:
.Pa LD_SHOW_AUXV=1 /bin/true          
command for similar functionality instead.
.Pp 
This application takes one or more arguments, where each argument is a supported 
.Va a_type ,
and prints to standard out the corresponding 
.Va a_val 
value. If there are N 
.Va a_type 
arguements passed, then standard out will consists of N lines, where each line is the 
.Va a_val 
of the corresponding 
.Va a_type 
argument. Use 
.Op Fl Fl list 
to get a list of the supported 
.Va a_type 
arguments.
.Pp 
In this context an 
.Em a_type argument
refers to the 
.Va a_type 
member variable of the
.Vt auxv_t
structure, which is defined (on most systems) in 
.Pa /usr/include/elf.h .
For each 
.Va a_type 
argument, this application scans through the list of 
.Vt auxv_t 
structures in 
.Pa /proc/self/auxv 
until an 
.Vt auxv_t 
structure with a matching 
.Va a_type 
is found. The 
.Va a_val 
of the matching 
.Vt auxv_t 
structure is then printed out (one 
.Va a_val 
per line per 
.Va a_type 
parameter).
.Sh OPTIONS
.Bl -tag -width " "
.It Op Fl Fl help
Displays list of supported options and their descriptions.
.It Op Fl Fl info
Displays some basic information regarding the lsauxv application, as well as an example use.
.It Op Fl Fl list
Lists all supported a_type arguments.
.It Op Fl Fl hwcap
Lists the enabled hardware capabilities.
.It Ar a_type1 a_type2 ...
Replace 
.Ar a_type1 a_type2 ...
with one or more of the supported a_type arguments. The case of the arguments does not matter.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "/proc/self/auxv" -compact
.It Sy /proc/self/auxv
the file that this application scans when attempting to find an auxv_t structure with an a_type member that matches the argument(s).
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -item -compact
.It 
> lsauxv AT_PAGESZ AT_UID at_uid
.It 
4096
.It 
1016
.It 
1016
.El
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS
.Ex -std lsauxv
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr query_auxv 3
.Sh REPORTING BUGS
.Pp
Email bug reports to Raphael M. Zinsly <rzinsly@linux.vnet.ibm.com> or
Carlos Eduardo Seo <cseo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>.
.Sh AUTHORS
.Pp
Written by Sean Curry.
