Contribution Statement:

In order to contribute to the Libauxv project please complete, sign,
date, scan, and email the Individual Contributor License Agreement (ICLA.txt)
or the Corporate Contributor License Agreement (CCLA.txt) and email it to the
maintainer.

For each individual contribution please use the Developers Certificate of
Origin (DCO) indicated below.

Maintainers:

	Base:    Raphael M. Zinsly <rzinsly@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
		 Carlos Eduardo Seo <cseo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
	PowerPc: Raphael M. Zinsly <rzinsly@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
		 Carlos Eduardo Seo <cseo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>

Contributors:

	Original Author: Sean Curry <spcurry@us.ibm.com>
	Steve Munroe <munroesj@us.ibm.com>
	Peter Bergner <bergner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
	Ryan S. Arnold <rsa@us.ibm.com>
	Juvenal A. Silva Jr. <juvenal@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
	Raphael Zinsly <rzinsly@br.ibm.com>
	Carlos Eduardo Seo <cseo@linux.vnet.ibm.com>

Process For Accepting Third Party Code Contributions:

To improve tracking of contributions to this project we will use a process
modeled on the modified Developers Certificate of Origin (DCO 1.1) and use a
"sign-off" procedure on patches that are being emailed around or contributed
in any other way.

The sign-off is a simple line at the end of the explanation for the patch,
which certifies that you wrote it or otherwise have the right to pass it on as
an open-source patch.  The rules are pretty simple: if you can certify the
below:

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a)The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I have the right
to submit it under the CCLA or ICLA I submitted to the maintainer; or

(b)The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best of my
knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source License and I have the
right under that license to submit that work with modifications, whether
created in whole or in part by me, under the same open source license (unless
I am permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated the CCLA or
ICLA I submitted to the maintainer; or

(c)The contribution was provided directly to me by some other person who
certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified it.

(d)The contribution is made free of any other party's intellectual property
claims or rights.

(e)I understand and agree that this project and the contribution are public
and that a record of the contribution (including all personal information I
submit with it, including my sign-off) is maintained indefinitely and may be
redistributed consistent with this project or the open source license(s)
involved.

(f) I acknowledge that this code can be rereleased under the license in the
file.

Then you just add a line saying:

Signed-off-by: Random J Developer random@developer.org>
